.TH I-HAKLAB 1 "2026" "" "General Commands Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.
.SH NAME
i-Haklab \- Ivam3 Hacking laboratory containing open-source tools
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i-Haklab
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ ARG ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
i-Haklab v.3.12 (c) 2026 by @Ivam3 is a hacking laboratory containing open-source tools recommended by Ivam3. If the law is violated with its use, the user handling it will be responsible for any consequences.

The syntax for i-Haklab is:
.PP
.B i-Haklab [-option-] [-args-]
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.SS [--] Setting Options [--]
.TP
.B about <name-of-tool>
Show information about a specific tool or framework (e.g., i-Haklab about crunch).
.TP
.B aptup
Update Termux manually, packages by packages.
.TP
.B help
Show the help menu.
.TP
.B passwd set|new
Set or change the Termux login (e.g., i-Haklab passwd set password). Supports password or fingerprint.
.TP
.B pd <distro-X11-list>
Run a Linux distribution in a proot environment.
Use `i-Haklab pd list` to show all available distributions.
Example: `i-Haklab pd alpine` for CLI or `i-Haklab pd alpine X11` for graphical environment.
.TP
.B setapikey
Set API keys to use in i-Haklab features.
.TP
.B setbanner
Enable, disable, and customize the i-Haklab wall banner.
.TP
.B setshell
Switch shell between bash, zsh and fish (default).
.TP
.B setuser
Set the i-Haklab username.
.TP
.B show alltools|instatools|books|tutorials
List available tools, installed tools, books or tutorials.
.TP
.B speedtest
Run a speed test of your network.
.TP
.B version
Show the current version of i-Haklab installed.
.TP
.B weechat
Connect to IRC Ivam3byCinderella chat.
.TP
.B Xwayland
Run X server over Termux Wayland app with XFCE4 as the window manager.

.SS Automatization Options [--]
.TP
.B apkactivity <path-to-apk-file>
Get the main activity from an APK file.
.TP
.B androforensic secretCodes|airscope|dumpsys|extract <target>
Extract information from Android devices via ADB.
.TP
.B backup create|restore
Create or restore a backup of Termux (e.g., i-Haklab backup create in/ex).
.TP
.B binchecker
Get information about binary files (CC, DC).
.TP
.B bruteforce ftp|mail|ssh|telnet
Perform a brute force attack on various servers (e.g., i-Haklab bruteforce ftp).
.TP
.B chatAI <--help|-h>
Connect with the OpenAI API to interact with ChatGPT-3 via CLI (e.g., i-Haklab chatAI).
.TP
.B ESmsg encode|decode
Encode or decode secret messages into an ASCII file (e.g., i-Haklab ESmsg encode).
.TP
.B fakeID <options+args>
Create a fake identity card with a real email and phone number (e.g., i-Haklab fakeID -g male -n America -c "United States").
.TP
.B tunnel <port+subdomain>
Start an SSH client to request TCP port forwarding (e.g., i-Haklab tunnel -p 4444 -s my-subdomain).
.TP
.B handler <name-of-file.rc>
Start handler on msfconsole with previous settings.
.TP
.B msf dirscan|embed|payapk|payexe|paypdf|shodan
Metasploit automation tools for directory scanning, embedding payloads, creating APK/EXE/PDF payloads, and searching via Shodan.
.TP
.B ngroklink
Show the current ngrok link.
.TP
.B ngrokssh <port+protocol+file>
Connect to ngrok servers via SSH protocol (e.g., i-Haklab ngrokssh -p 4546 -t http -f /path/to/id_rsa).
.TP
.B payvid
Hide a reverse shell with a video file by exploiting the Linux OS.
.TP
.B phonescan <phonenumber>
Scan information about a phone number (e.g., i-Haklab phonescan 525584923476).
.TP
.B qemufy <file.zip/rm>
Convert OVA files and run a QEMU virtual machine over Termux (no root).
.TP
.B servers4test
Initialize deliberately insecure web applications for pentesting.
.TP
.B 4share <server-name>
Initialize a web server to share files remotely and securely (localtunnel, localhost.run, cloudflared).
.TP
.B usbtest <path-to-device>
Test a USB device connected via OTG (e.g., i-Haklab usbtest /dev/bus/usb/001).

.SS Direct Commands [--]
.PP
These commands do not require the `i-Haklab` prefix, simply type the command.
.TP
.B apt
Install/remove and configure packages/tools/frameworks.
.TP
.B adminfiles
Copy any file from internal/external storage to the Termux directory.
.TP
.B bat
Highlight text output instead of using the 'cat' command.
.TP
.B cmd
Manage Android main settings over Termux.
.TP
.B df
Provide information about mounted memory.
.TP
.B du
Provide recursive information about the weight of directories and files.
.TP
.B fixer
Automate the process to fix Termux issues.
.TP
.B fzf
Fuzzy finder for easier and faster file selection.
.TP
.B gitbrowsering
Search GitHub repositories over CLI.
.TP
.B LOCALHOST
Show the current internet protocol over LAN.
.TP
.B lock
Block Termux's screen.
.TP
.B mypip
Show your public internet protocol.
.TP
.B openvpn
Open OpenVPN application.
.TP
.B omf
Change the Oh-My-Fish theme.
.TP
.B phantom-ps
Change the limit of phantom processes.
.TP
.B pm
Android package manager.
.TP
.B postgresql
Start, stop, or restart PostgreSQL database.
.TP
.B proxy
Execute CLI commands over Tor with proxychains.
.TP
.B rmcache
Remove current session cache, temporary files, and residual APT packages.
.TP
.B serverapache
Initialize an Apache server.
.TP
.B serverphp
Initialize a PHP server.
.TP
.B sudo
Execute commands or initialize an environment as a fake root user.
.TP
.B telegram
Open Telegram application.
.TP
.B traductor
Initialize a command-line translator.
.TP
.B yazi
Terminal file manager.

.SH SEE ALSO
For more information and documentation, visit: https://github.com/ivam3/i-Haklab
